okay
hello I told you myself
Echo's let's pick that my name is Portia
and welcome to the ipfs weekly call if
you hear an echo here go great can you
hear me yes awesome okay
so once again welcome to the ipfs weekly
meeting and today we'll start off with
announcements then we'll dive into our
live presentation Oh build an echo
you
I'm not sure where the echo is
coming from okay it's gone excellent
yay
first problem solved so once again we
will start with announcements then we
will get into the presentation and
finally we will have five or ten minutes
for questions and answers for questions
and answers could you please put excuse
me a question and say comments if you
could put your questions and comments in
a chat and I will call you based on your
name and a chat they'll be great I'll
make things a little bit more organized
and let's begin with announcements so
who has announcements if you have an
announcement I think Michael does please
raise your hand
maybe some the eternities are now
oh okay announcements okay Michael Mike
please
um give your announcement
you
Hey sorry um can people see my screen
right now yes okay I apologize for the
delay there zoom was give me some
trouble um so just yeah I wanted to do a
really brief announcement but it's it's
extensive enough that it has a few
slides my name is Mike gelser I'm the
working group captain for lid p2p like
the overall lid p2p project um and we
have put together we're in the process
of creating a roadmap um just like you
guys are you're much further ahead of
the state that we're at currently um but
we've put together our first sort of
major draft where we want feedback from
external stakeholders or I mean just
stakeholders generally and in particular
ipfs working group captains are members
who whose work depends on Lib p2p I'll
post that link in the document link in
the in the notes if I haven't already
but basically we we just put this
document together I'm not gonna try to
go through the whole thing I just want
to explain this for the state that it's
in and then how you can help us um right
now this document is just an aggregation
of every idea that's been discussed by
the Lib p2p team for what we could do in
the next like five years it's they range
from tactical things like improving the
docs to really far out their ideas like
making a lip p2p hardware device and
that people install in their homes so I
mean it's it's just a huge compilation
of these ideas it's not a road map in
the sense that there are no dates
there's no the items are not in any type
of priority order that does intensional
um and we're not committed at this point
to any of those things they're just a
role and I enrolled did most of the
technical parts I did most of the
products stuff at the end but we all we
did was take all the existing ideas and
aggregate them together and our goal for
this week is to get folks in the
community and downstream users like ipfs
to give us feedback
what things they care about and will you
will use that for prioritization so that
that's our main ask from you and in
particular for ipfs working group of
captains like if you have a dependency
on something and lib p2p and it's not
reflected anywhere in that roadmap you
should tell us like make a comment in
the dock
yeah I'll create a github issue too but
probably best to the comments in the
dock if you think that that if you see
something in the document that is
particularly important to you you should
+1 and it like that'll help us know
about dependencies that we may not have
already learned about ok
so I'll stop my screen share thanks for
your time Thanks
um any quick questions before we
continue
okay um thank you very much Mike
and Oh our net our presentation is
called ipfs live-streaming and it is
presented by your girl Ilan and then
thank you very much for taking the time
out to present city ipfs weekly meeting
and we're looking forward to it so let's
get started okay so as I stick as you
stated this is the ipfs live streaming
which is a something we launched at the
eternal our networks conference in 2018
so our networks is a fairly small
conference it just started up in Toronto
this is the second year it's got only
about a hundred participants on it
it's basically talking about community
networks mesh networks things of that
nature focusing more on the people side
although there's quite a bit of tech in
there as well so the live-streaming the
conference our budget was basically a
hundred bucks it wasn't something that
was originally planned on happening but
basically myself Ilan we're kind of
talking about how we can do video
streaming over ipfs and some optimistic
person said hey why don't we live
streamed the conference over ipfs and we
aimed at making the content distribution
easily scalable make it reprimand other
similar sized conferences and dog food
for decentralized text basically testing
the limits see what we can do see what
we can't do things of that nature so the
project started the first commit was May
19th the conference was July 13th
looking back at it that was two months
somehow we pulled her off although we
had a proof of concept already in place
it was still
quite they asked but nonetheless we did
do it
so before we start I'm gonna talk about
a stack sorry
so our stack at the our networks
conference was basically a couple of
HDMI capture cards in some audio-visual
hardware we had used the OBS studio to
manage the actual streams and such on
premise we used Open VPN for
authentication and publishing
digitalocean was the host and manage DNS
is and all that nginx and rtmp modules
were used to proxy the traffic to the
real-time servers ffmpeg they're all are
encoding into HLS ipfs did the storage
and distribution video j/s we used as
the player for the website and terraform
was a means that we used to make it
reproducible and easily deployable so
with that I am going to show you a quick
demo of how to actually deploy this so
we're gonna start by cloning the git
repository where all this is stored for
anybody's use and then we're gonna do a
bit of configuration so we're gonna set
a domain name where we're gonna put this
now we're going to host this we're gonna
set an API email address for let's
encrypt and we're going to generate a
public key for the SSH sessions and that
key that gets put into digitalocean and
a fingerprint gets added and speaking of
the gel oceans we will need to publish
things to it so there's an API key and
because it is a live demo I'm gonna put
the actual public key the private key in
there so then we're gonna install
terraform so just gonna do a quick get
unzip it and initialize so this just
prepares terraform and then terraform
apply will actually take the whole stack
and deploy it on my own serve digital
ocean droplets so this
takes anywhere from ten to forty minutes
as of last night we got it down to ten
minutes we found what was happening but
we're gonna let this run while we
continue the presentation and check it
out after so let's talk a little bit
about what we did at our network so this
is kind of the map of how the our
network streaming was taken care of we
basically had two feeds an HDMI feed
from the presenters laptop and from the
cameras they would go into a laptop
running OBS OBS would then publish the
stream over a VPN connection over the
Internet to the rtmp server which is one
of the droplets that the stack creates
because we did not know if this would
work that rtmp server actually hosts the
files for two different means of
streaming the ipfs stream and a pure
clear legacy HTTP stream so we if one
would fail we still had the old the
other one so the IP FS side consists of
an IP FS server that actually does the
heavy lifting in creating the IP FS
hashes and things of that nature and
then mirrors which would actually host
the files and and such so let's talk a
little bit about IP FS and video so to
put a video on IP FS is pretty
straightforward it's very similar to any
other type of content you record the
video you hash it and you put it on IP
FS and then publish the hash to
everybody but what happens if you wanna
hash something that hasn't happened yet
I mean that that's the question so we
were looking we looked at something
called HLS which a lot of websites have
been using for various reasons so HLS
was developed by Apple it was released
in 2009
it basically breed breaks the stream
into small pieces little small chunks
and this sequence of the chunks actually
make up the stream what HLS does it
creates a playlist that actually
describes what the sequence is so as an
example there's an m3u8 list of the
different chunks of the client downloads
then the client start
downloading each chunk individually and
playing it as it goes
so the question we came up is what if we
just hash each individual chunk and that
that's what we did so the video source
was from an rtmp server we used ffmpeg
to actually create the HLS chunks the
small pieces of video and then we just
wait until the chunk is created once the
chunk is created we added to the ipfs
cloud and we store that new hash
somewhere so we can rewrite the m3u8
list and then just rinse and repeat so
we created a log file that looks kind of
like this basically it just has the hash
the filename timestamp and the length of
the hash and when we rewrite the HLS
file it kind of looks like that where we
basically pointed to an IP FS gateway
with the correct chunk and the
information so now that we have this the
sequence we need to publish the playlist
and the playlist is its changes it
changes about every 20 seconds depending
how many house big chunks you create so
the web video player can they can play
it through a gateway so that way the
video player doesn't really need to get
modified or anything it's just HTTP and
you know mission accomplished right we
publish it into IPs because it's a
mutable format
the video player plays it what could go
wrong well they say there are only two
hard things in computer science caption
validation naming things as soon can
just call backs and off-by-one errors we
hit them all cache invalidation trying
to figure out why the stream was
stalling well IP n s takes two minutes
to publish the stream that's four times
slower assuming you have a 30 second
chunk that's not going to work
IP NS then takes about two minutes to
resolve which again it's not gonna work
so I penis with DHT takes way too long
because what we were told there's way
too many people behind the NAT and it's
basically luckily draw if you're gonna
get a fast resolved or not so he looked
at IP and s pub/sub which publishes
things very very quickly and it works
great most of the time so what was I
solution well because we wanted this to
work we because we wanted this to be a
proof of concept we scrapped the IP and
s for the conference and just hosted the
small little six seven hundred byte file
on HTTP it wasn't gonna break things
well naming things
well if ffmpeg was restarted it starts a
numerating from the beginning and
duplicating names in the log file so
when you were trying to replace them the
hashes don't match up and everything
just breaks so our solution was instead
of replacing files in the m3u8 file we
just created our own we had all the
information we needed a synchronous
callbacks we depend on a series of
events to make this happen the first
thing is ffmpeg IP FS n a process script
so each one of these is run in its own
thread what could possibly go wrong so
our solution was creating self recovery
measures that realize that something is
not working properly every time it loops
just to thing get things up and running
so off-by-one errors HLS sequence have a
timecode in them if they're incorrectly
ordered the client stalls rewriting them
with a timecode led to very limited
success but when we looked at this
problem we found that HLS had a better
solution there is actually a tag in HLS
that indicates the beginning of a new
sequence and we applied that and things
started working so you know what now
that we have we went through all this
let's see what happens with our build
and unfortunately our build is still
building but
you know what we're gonna do a bit of a
Martha Stewart on here and look at a
already spun up cluster so ela
config files that you put on your
computer you connect the VPN and we use
that as an authentication mechanism the
nice thing about Open VPN also is that
it wraps it in a TCP link so the UDP
packets don't drop usually live streams
are using UDP packets because you don't
want to if you lost some packets who
cares you want to continue but because
there's a bit of a delay wrapping in a
TCP actually creates a better stream
without so much delay so I'm gonna stop
sharing now and Ilana if you want to
share your screen let's uh let's stream
something alright so we're gonna use OBS
as I mentioned to stream something to
live dot mesh that world so we're gonna
select the output stream we're gonna put
in this is all in the readme we're gonna
put the IP address of our server over
VPN which is always 10 10 10 1 slash
live and set up our OBS as normal and
start streaming to it so I'm gonna just
do a video file here so now what's
happening is OBS is actually sending the
content of this video stream to the
server
alright and in a few seconds we should
be able to see we're still seeing the
end of the last one takes a few oh no we
had a problem here BPM needs to
reconnect
try it again
so stop streaming start it up again
there we go 30 frames-per-second
zero drop frames alright looks like it's
working now so let's give it about 30
seconds for it to kick in on the back
end and there's a link that was posted
in the chat which you can take a look at
this live stream so you might get the
tail end of a stream we tried out
yesterday because we haven't really
gotten very far in recording this one
but a few moments so there is a little
bit of a delay on on this model because
as I said you can't hash live events so
between the waiting for the chunk to get
created it getting published on ipfs
followed by actually the H last client
downloading the proper chunks and and so
forth there is a little bit of a delay
on this but when we streamed it at the
conference we had about 16 people view
it and the stream worked great then go
down once I think for about half a
second and we had some really good so
what time is it we have time for another
quick demo yes very quick demo okay
so I'll show you this really this is a
what we did we took the stack and we
compressed it onto a Raspberry Pi using
the Raspberry Pi camera so I'm gonna
share my screen here for a second and
grab some links here where did my links
go so I'm gonna go directly to local IP
addresses just because it works better
so this is a Raspberry Pi camera pointed
out on to outside a window and as you
can see it streams pretty well on local
IP addresses and if we wanted to
there's no ports forwards there's
nothing like that this is playing off of
a third a third party VMware with with
the same player as you can see it's it
plays and then another little thing we
did because this is the Raspberry Pi
camera hooked up to the Raspberry Pi and
so we were talking what else could we do
with this what could be some cool things
so what we did is let's see if this
thing loads we took a Raspberry Pi we
connected it to a software-defined radio
tuned it into an FM frequency and now we
have internet radio over IP FS so I will
throw these into the chat I can figure
out how where my chats and for you guys
to take a look at and this is just
running you'll see that the streams will
stall and things of that nature
unfortunately that's kind of the issues
we ran into running an with ipfs there's
some things that need to get cleaned up
and fixed and sped up but the concept
worked we put those links in the chat
for you all and whoops is now a good
time for a silent round of applause this
is so exciting it worked really great
all the problems that we were actually
had were actually physical issues at the
location we were at because we were at
the Mozilla hive and we had to use a bit
of hackery to actually get it into our
laptops so we had some audio sync issues
stuff like that but none of it was
because of this stack it was because of
just very short amount
time we had to prep it then but yeah
thank you so much for the presentation
and the dead-ball um now we have time
for questions we will go over an extra
five minutes to accommodate questions so
if you have a question could you just
please put it in the chat excellent
so questions Jonnie Jonnie crunch
question I suppose just um is there a
threshold as far as the number of people
can who can hit it I guess since you're
using the gateway that shouldn't be a
problem so like it did you a dude named
load-testing
well we got 16 people on it that's kind
of the load that we were able to put on
it could we have done more probably we
did limit the amount of things that
could go wrong by basically running this
off of all our servers so our gateway
our rtmp server our IP FS server etc etc
however we've done some playing around
why especially with ipfs using the the
module of the add-in for Chrome and
Firefox and in theory what we should be
able to do is actually spread that
content around a lot faster if everybody
was using the module so I mean in theory
if everything works as planned
I mean scalability shouldn't be an issue
at all if things work oh yeah so in the
internal repository for a tear from
scripts there's a variable that controls
how many mirrors you can spin up so if
we're expecting like a thousand people
watch it we can from the beginning spin
spin up like for chocolates for for
mirrors
and each mirror also holds its own
gateway but then the more mirrors we
have the more I PFS knows there are and
then it would do the distribution of the
chumps through through ipfs
hi Debbie this is really awesome and
yeah I'm super excited to try this out I
have one question if you export given
like a few I don't know H it probably
not possible but I given that you are
already chunking in some other place
that is not where the catcher is being
done would it be possible to kind of
like do the transcoding so kind of like
encode it to multiple resolutions right
like so magic you're streaming at 4k and
I could like do the 1080p and at 720 and
so on and kind of like AB the say my
penis pointer point the roots of all of
those chains like all those trains of
clocks on the multiple resolutions and
then whether device pick up on the right
resolution like what the clients decide
oh I want to follow this acidic one
because my device is a phone and I don't
need more something like that yeah so
HLS has that's one of the powers of HLS
is that you can do multiple resolutions
and then it decides that you know what
I'm lagging behind let me drop to us
lower resolution so that there's because
it assumes just network congestion so
yes you can't do that it's just part of
HLS but one of the issues that you would
probably run into now we didn't do this
but just looking at it is first of all
you would be distributing multiple
different streams so if you are looking
at pushing out the stream to multiple to
a large audience
you would have to push out actually
multiple different streams they'll be if
you would actually be splitting off how
many nodes have the stream that you're
actually watching but the other issue
that you would also run into is that the
lag in HLS would not necessarily be a a
bandwidth issue anymore because there's
so many other factors there's has IP NS
updated properly has does the ipfs have
the hash that you're looking for etc etc
so although that could definitely be
something to look at it would have to be
do have to be work done on the HLS side
to deal with those different variables
yeah absolutely in perhaps like one
potential use case would be that like
even the receivers are the one doing
doing the transcoding so if I have a
laptop in my home and I'm watching some
streaming and I have other devices in my
home that I also like trying to watch
the same stream I can be the machine
that is responsible for like doing the
the re-encoding and then because like
it's missing again so like the devices
can just like fetch these re-encoded
blocks from my machine directly but like
using the same pointer like you are
providing I mean it's an idea just a lot
of them we tried yeah there was an issue
with the video feed on D web and we try
to pull the stream from YouTube and push
it into ipfs unfortunately the issue
they had was actually before it hit
YouTube so although the theory work then
it was working it didn't really solve
any problems so you can definitely ways
of you know pulling the stream andreen
coding it and things of that nature
interesting awesome okay we are going to
end here thank you so much your go Ben
and Ilan for presenting and sharing with
us and hey before you go I believe a
link to our weekly newsletter in the
comments and I would like to thank Leto
for taking dope have a great day and I
will see you next week take care bye bye
thanks thank you bye